---
path: '/2017-08-13'
title: 'Digression From What?'
---

To paraphrase George Ripley, founder of the Brook Farm utopian community outside of Boston in the mid-nineteenth century, I consider myself a humble pioneer in the mightiest of works – and by that, I mean that I am a teacher (read ‘learning facilitator’).

I am a college graduate with a Master’s degree in History (where I wrote one of my favorite research papers on Mr. Ripley and the Brook Farm community), and I have been teaching History and related subjects at the high school and college level for the past seven years.

My current position teaching high school is a rather unique one due to the fact that it ‘hacks’ the standard classroom setting and incorporates Montessori methods, which emphasize 1-on-1 and small group lessons tailored to students’ individual needs and learning styles. In this unique environment, I am afforded the opportunity to teach in many more subject areas than a traditional school. As a result, I often feel that I learn as much as I teach – and believe me, I’m not complaining!

I was originally hired as a ‘High School Social Studies Teacher,’ which included courses in Geography, World and US History, Government, and Economics. This list quickly grew to incorporate courses in World Cultures, Sociology, Psychology, Career Planning, Business and Technology. More recently, I have expanded my teaching repertoire to include courses in fields such as Mathematics, Physics, and even Health and Fitness. But I digress.

Through this experience, I have had the pleasure of teaching a wonderful and vibrant community of students from across the country and around the world who are enrolled in distance education curricula. As part of this exciting environment, I have also been able to identify problems that could be (and now, I can confidently say have been), solved through the power of technology!

I have taught and assisted an extensive range of individuals – from students more than a decade younger than myself to colleagues several decades older than myself – with software that makes their lives easier. This experience has taught me how to learn and intuit software quite rapidly. Additionally – and equally as important – the teaching skills that I have honed over the past several years have been immensely helpful in my success at relaying knowledge of these tools to others in order for them to understand the benefits and to feel more confident working with software independently.

My appreciation of technology for its ability to alleviate problems and to enhance the quality of my own work environment as well as those of my students and colleagues eventually drew me into the world of software development (and hence the dev part of this digression). Doing so allowed me to revisit the classroom as a student at my alma mater when I enrolled in a degree program for Computer Science. While learning the fundamentals of programming, logic design and a bit of calculus and discrete mathematics on the side, I tried to put my skills to the test by creating a mini replica of one of my favorite applications – MyFitnessPal. My creation was not very aesthetic, but it helped me to understand this Object Oriented Programming dynamic that I kept hearing about.

From there, I decided that my next approach would be to revisit the world of web development. The last time I had designed a webpage, it was on a hosting site called GeoCities back in the mid-1990s. I made a webpage (in pure, old-school HTML) devoted to my favorite video game of all time, Chrono Trigger. I even made it part of a Web Ring! (remember the pre-Google era?) I can still hear the MIDI file of the theme music playing in the background and see the pixelated (and animated – so impressive!) images on the page, describing each character and analyzing the storyline of this wonderful game. But I digress.

I used my natural inclination toward learning new things to build competencies in the necessary (and more up-to-date) tools of the web – HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript. It was then that I truly realized the power of these web languages, and my other natural inclination for generating new ideas kicked in. Now I can’t help but look at the educational software I am exposed to daily at work without thinking of interesting ideas that might help to make it even more effective or efficient in some way.

Ultimately, all of this experience has led me to the decision that it is time for me to pursue web development without the aid of the brick-and-mortar college experience. After learning the fundamentals of front-end development, I have enlisted the aid of a more extensive program by enrolling in the Coding Bootcamp Thinkful, which I will begin in just a few weeks. This program is designed to teach full stack development with current, in-demand technologies that I believe will give me the edge in applying my skill set to build quality web software that benefits everyone in the process!

At this point, I would not consider myself a pure beginner; I am confident in the fundamentals of programming that I have learned. Don’t get me wrong – I am not kidding myself into thinking that what I have accomplished so far is anything more than merely wading around in the shallower waters of web development, and software development more generally. Nevertheless, I am certainly ready to dive into the much deeper waters and learn as much as possible (back end? say what?) over the next several months! Undoubtedly, much of that acquired knowledge will be showcased here as I progress.

Once again, I excitedly anticipate the opportunity to learn more and to grow as a developer – with the intent that my dev digression will lead me to create some awesome software and that soon I will consider it my dev profession!
